GNU Aspell 0.60 Nepali (नेपाली) Dictionary Package
Version 0.02-0
2007-10-26
Maintained By:
  Gaurav Atreya (गौरव आत्रेय) <allmanpride at gmail dot com>
Original Word List Also By:
  Language Technology Kendra
Copyright Terms: GPLv3 (see the file Copyright for the exact terms)
Source Verson: 0.01
This word list is considered accurate but incomplete.

This is the Nepali dictionary for Aspell.  It requires Aspell
version 0.60 or better.

The word list and affix file was taken and modified from the spellcheker developed by
the Language Technology Kendra for hunspell that can be obtained here:
http://ltk.org.np/nepali_spellchecker.php

The phonetics and other details were taken from the Hindi Dictionary
Package (aspell6-hi-0.02-0) and modified for Nepali.

If Aspell is installed and aspell and prezip-bin are all
in the path first do a:

  ./configure

Which should output something like:

  Finding Dictionary file location ... /usr/local/lib/aspell
  Finding Data file location ... /usr/local/share/aspell

if it did not something likely went wrong.

After that build the package with:
  make
and then install it with
  make install

If any of the above mentioned programs are not in your path than the
variables, ASPELL and/or PREZIP need to be set to the
commands (with path) to run the utilities.  These variables may be set
in the environment before configure is run or specified at the command
line using the following syntax
  ./configure --vars VAR1=VAL1 ...
Other useful variables configure recognizes are ASPELL_PARMS, and DESTDIR.

To clean up after the build:
  make clean

To uninstall the files:
  make uninstall

After the dictionaries are installed you can use the main one (ne) by
setting the LANG environmental variable to ne or running Aspell
with "--lang=ne".  You may also chose the dictionary directly
with the "-d" or "--master" option of Aspell.  You can chose from any of
the following dictionaries:
  ne (nepali)
Whereas the names in parentheses are alternate names for the
dictionary preceding the parentheses.

The individual word lists have an extension of ".cwl" and are
compressed to save space.  To uncompress a word list use
"preunzip BASE.cwl" which will uncompress it and rename the file
to "BASE.wl".  To dump a compressed word list to standard output use
"precat BASE.cwl".  To uncompress all word lists in the current
directory use "preunzip *.cwl".  For more help on "preunzip" use
"preunzip --help".

If you have any problem with installing or using the word lists please
let the Aspell maintainer, Kevin Atkinson, know at kevina@gnu.org.

If you have problems with the actual word lists please contact one of
the Word lists authors as the Aspell maintainer does not maintain the
actual Word Lists.

Any additional documentation that came with the original word list can
be found in the doc/ directory.
